JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
With no Democrat support, we
couldn't quite
get there.
We're just a very small number
of votes short.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In a defeat for
Republicans,
President Trump and House
Speaker Paul Ryan
pull the GOP's health care bill,
lacking the
votes needed to replace the
Affordable Care
Act.
And it's Friday.
Mark Shields and David Brooks
are here to
analyze a packed week of news.
Then, Jeffrey Brown talks with
the director
of the sequel to the dark
comedy/drama hit
"Trainspotting" about bringing
characters
back to life after 20 years.
DANNY BOYLE, Director, "T2:
Trainspotting":
One of the joys of doing the
film was the
learning process of seeing how
poorly men
age and how wise women are,
whereas we -- it's
not even like we think we're
living in the
past.
We just are, and we're not
admitting it to
ourselves for so long.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Republican
effort to replace
Obamacare, the health care law,
lies in ruins
tonight.
At the 11th hour today, House
GOP leaders
gave up trying to hold a vote on
their bill.
Our Lisa Desjardins has been at
the Capitol
all day.
She begins our coverage.
REP.
PAUL RYAN (R-WI), Speaker of the
House: I
will not sugarcoat this.
This is a disappointing day for
us.
LISA DESJARDINS: After a
dramatic week of
will they or won't they,
Republicans' selected
won't, pulling their sweeping
health care
bill shortly before a scheduled
vote, when
it clearly was short of the
support it needed.
REP.
PAUL RYAN: Moving from an
opposition party
to a governing party comes with
growing pains.
And, well, we're feeling those
growing pains
today.
We came really close today, but
we came up
short.
Doing big things is hard.
All of us, all of us, myself
included, we
will need time to reflect on how
we got to
this moment.
LISA DESJARDINS: The House
speaker then acknowledged
the resulting reality.
REP.
PAUL RYAN: Obamacare is the law
of the land.
It's going to remain the law of
the land until
it's replaced.
We did not have quite the votes
to replace
this law.
And so, yes, we're going to be
living with
Obamacare for the foreseeable
future.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
Thank you very much.
We were very close, very, very
tight margins.
LISA DESJARDINS: President Trump
pointed to
a lack of Democratic votes and
said he's open
to discussing another bill.
But, for now, health care will
stay as it
is.
DONALD TRUMP: I have been saying
for the last
year-and-a-half that the best
thing we can
do, politically speaking, is let
Obamacare
explode, and it is exploding
right now.
LISA DESJARDINS: This after a
wild 24 hours
of promises and pressure, with
Vice President
Pence meeting with the
conservative Freedom
Caucus today, and the White
House standing
by an ultimatum President Trump
issued last
night, that, if the bill failed,
he wouldn't
return to the issue.
Press Secretary Sean Spicer
today:
SEAN SPICER, White House Press
Secretary:
I know that the president's made
it clear
that this is the effort, this
was the train
that's leaving the station, and
that he expects
everyone -- that this is our
opportunity.
LISA DESJARDINS: Republicans
also dangled
some carrots, adding new changes
last night
to win votes.
For moderates, they revived a
Medicare tax
on the wealthy, using the
proceeds to help
states increase health coverage,
and for conservatives,
a repeal of the Affordable Care
Act's guarantee
of basic, essential benefits,
things like
E.R. visits, prescriptions and
preventative
care.
Removing the essential benefits
did sway some
members.
Joe Barton of Texas:
REP.
JOE BARTON (R), Texas: That is a
big win for
conservative values, so I am now
a yes vote.
LISA DESJARDINS: Others refused
to budge,
including Barton's fellow Texan
Louie Gohmert.
REP.
LOUIE GOHMERT (R), Texas: The
president shouldn't
give any more energy.
This was up to us.
It wasn't up to him.
And I'm grateful that he spent
as much effort
trying as hard as he did.
LISA DESJARDINS: More no's came
from the ranks
of moderates.
The chair of House
appropriations, New Jersey's
Rodney Frelinghuysen, cited cuts
to Medicaid
funding.
At the White House, President
Trump said this
morning he has no regrets.
QUESTION: Did you rush it, do
you think?
DONALD TRUMP: We will see what
happens.
LISA DESJARDINS: Mr. Trump also
said he had
full faith in Speaker Ryan
moving forward.
But, by early afternoon, Ryan
was at the White
House, delivering the grim news
on the bill's
prospects.
Democrats, meanwhile, pointed to
the Republicans'
disunity.
REP.
NANCY PELOSI (D-CA), House
Minority Leader:
I think their mistake really was
they were
so focused on embarrassing the
Affordable
Care Act, rather than trying to
improve it.
LISA DESJARDINS: Three months
into their control
of government, Republicans have
a central
political and policy platform to
rebuild.
And this is a seismic moment.
Speaker Ryan says, nonetheless,
he's moving
to the next big mountain to
climb, tax reform,
even though accomplishing tax
reform will
now be harder, Judy, because
they don't have
the savings that he was hoping
for from health
care reform.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Lisa, a lot
of finger-pointing
going on.
What is your reading from
talking to all the
people you have talked to about
why they couldn't
get this done?
LISA DESJARDINS: Yes, I want to
try and set
aside all the blame game --
there is a lot
of that -- and focus on three
things.
One, I just talked to Chairman
Greg Walden,
who was one of the co-authors of
this bill.
He said he felt that the
goalposts kept moving
from conservatives and
moderates, that they
would give them one thing, and
then they would
ask for more.
That's one factor.
Another, Republicans have a very
large conference,
but with that also comes large
differences
in policy, and they couldn't
bridge those.
The third, Judy, the timeline, I
think, was
a very big factor.
The Republicans shot for the
moon here trying
to pass a massive bill in just
three weeks.
That didn't leave any breathing
room for very
serious concerns.
And that's why I think we saw
this bill fail.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Lisa, what
are Republicans
saying about what they think the
implications
are for their party, for them?
LISA DESJARDINS: They're worried
about 2018.
Democrats would need a sweep to
retake the
House, but for the first time, I
had two different
Republican members tell me today
they're worried
that that sweep is possible.
And it's not just about their
individual elections,
Judy, but this takes the kind of
air out,
all the energy out from
conservative causes
across the board.
They have been campaigning on
this up and
down, nonprofits, politicians,
for seven years,
and they're just not sure where
the energy
now is going to come from for
all of these
groups that have been pushing
for conservative
causes for years.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And just quickly,
what about
Speaker Ryan himself?
How is he affected by this?
LISA DESJARDINS: I actually
think Speaker
Ryan is doing OK.
Our Julie Percha, producer up
here, spoke
to several members of the
Freedom Caucus who
had nothing but good things to
say about Speaker
Ryan.
Also, in his benefit, Judy, it
doesn't look
like anyone else wants his job
right now.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Hmm.
That's interesting.
All right.
Lisa Desjardins at the Capitol,
we thank you.
And now a view from the White
House today.
Reporter Robert Costa of The
Washington Post
interviewed the president as the
bill was
being pulled from consideration.
And Robert joins me now in the
studio.
Robert, the president called
your cell phone.
What did he say?
ROBERT COSTA, The Washington
Post: Yes.
He did.
I was sitting over here in
Arlington.
It was a blocked number.
And he got right to the point.
He said, "Bob, I'm pulling the
bill."
And he had just met with House
Speaker Ryan.
And he said the votes weren't
there.
My whip count had about three
dozen Republicans
who were probably not going to
back the measure,
but he said it was closer, about
five to 12
votes away.
And he said he's ready to move
on.
He's going to not hold the bill
for a few
days.
He's going to wait, in his
words, to let it
explode.
JUDY WOODRUFF: He said in his
remarks to the
group of reporters, the
so-called pool there
in the Oval Office, he said that
it's going
to be -- the next move is up to
the Democrats.
Is that your sense of what
they're looking
for, or are they just shoving it
to the side
now?
ROBERT COSTA: He seems to be
open to a bipartisan
deal.
We will see if that actually
emerges.
But I said, you're kind of a
non-ideological
president, even though you're a
Republican.
Maybe you're more natural down
the road doing
something with the Democrats.
He said, a lot of people may say
that, and
he said it with a chuckle.
But whether the Democrats would
be willing
to work with the president, we
will have to
see.
I thought it was striking,
though.
He was pretty even-tempered.
And he finished the
conversation.
I said, you have been in the
presidency for
60 days.
Have you learned anything?
What's the lesson here?
He said, "Just another day in
paradise."
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Robert, he
didn't give
any sense of regret or a sense
that something
he did or his party did had gone
wrong?
ROBERT COSTA: Not a bit of
regret.
Defiance was the tone,
even-tempered, but
defiant.
He said, if the premiums rise,
in his words,
by 100 percent or 70 percent or
200 percent,
just publish the story at The
Post.
He said he's going to blame the
Democrats.
It was very partisan, very
political.
I also said, did you blame the
speaker?
You're the newcomer to
Washington, Mr. President.
Do you blame the House speaker
at all, as
some of your allies are behind
the scenes?
And he said three times, "I
don't blame Paul."
JUDY WOODRUFF: So revealing,
Robert Costa.
And you're going to be hosting
"Washington
Week" a little later tonight on
PBS.
ROBERT COSTA: Eight o'clock.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We will be
watching.
ROBERT COSTA: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thank you.
And in the day's other news: The
State Department
issued a permit to build the
long-delayed
Keystone X.L.
Pipeline.
The $8 billion project would
allow oil to
be piped from Canada to the
Texas Gulf Coast.
President Obama had rejected the
project mainly
for environmental reasons, but
in the Oval
Office today, President Trump
said reversing
that decision puts the country's
economic
security first.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
It's a great day for American
jobs, and a
historic moment for North
America and energy
independence.
This announcement is part of a
new era of
American energy policy that will
lower costs
for American families, and very
significantly,
reduce our dependence on foreign
oil, and
create thousands of jobs.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The oil industry
hailed the
decision.
Environmental groups vowed to
keep fighting
the pipeline.
A federal judge in Virginia
ruled in favor
today of the president's revised
travel ban.
The judge rejected arguments by
Muslim plaintiffs
who said the ban was
discriminatory.
And that directly contradicts
federal courts
in Maryland and Hawaii that have
blocked the
order.
The split increases the
likelihood that the
issue will end up before the
U.S. Supreme
Court.
In London, police have made two
more arrests
in Wednesday's terror attack
that killed four
people near Parliament.
They have taken 10 people into
custody since
52-year-old Khalid Masood drove
an SUV into
pedestrians, before being killed
himself.
Security was tight again today
around the
site of the attack.
Meanwhile, Jewish, Christian and
Muslim faith
leaders gathered outside
Westminster Abbey
for a minute of silence.
There may be a new migrant
disaster in the
Mediterranean.
A Spanish aid group reports that
hundreds
are feared dead in three
possible sinkings
off Libya.
Rescue workers were out today
hunting for
survivors.
The search began after they came
across bodies
in the water.
MAN: Yesterday at 6:30 in the
morning, we
found the first body, and four
more of young
African migrants from ages
between 16 and
25.
Then we found also the wrecks of
two boats.
We guess there might be around
200 people
missing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So far this year,
almost 600
people have died trying to cross
the Mediterranean
to Europe.
More than 5,000 perished in
2016.
That was the deadliest year
ever.
Salvage crews in South Korea
today finished
raising a sunken ferry
responsible for the
deaths of more than 300 people
in 2014.
Then, two barges began towing
the ferry to
a transport vessel that will
take it to a
port for inspection.
Most of the victims of the
sinking were high
school students on a trip.
Ousted Egyptian President Hosni
Mubarak has
been released after six years in
custody.
Mubarak, now 88, had been tried
on charges
of ordering the killing of
protesters during
the Arab Spring revolt in 2011.
Earlier this month, Egypt's top
appeals court
cleared him.
The former leader held power for
30 years
before being overthrown.
Back in this country, the House
Intelligence
Committee's probe of Russian
contacts with
Trump campaign advisers erupted
into fresh
acrimony today.
Republican Chair Devin Nunes
called off a
public hearing next Tuesday with
former intelligence
agency leaders.
Instead, he said the panel needs
to hear again
from leaders of the FBI and
National Security
Agency in a closed session.
REP.
DEVIN NUNES (R), California:
Until we can
get them in a closed session,
it's not going
to be worth it having the open
session.
So all members have a chance to
interview
them and hold a hearing in the
closed session.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Then the
Intelligence Committee's
ranking Democrat, Adam Schiff,
quickly challenged
the decision and disputed the
chairman's explanation.
REP.
ADAM SCHIFF (D), CALIFORNIA:
There must have
been a very strong pushback from
the White
House about the nature of
Monday's hearing.
It's hard for me to come to any
other conclusion
about why an agreed-upon hearing
would be
suddenly canceled.
Clearly, it had to do with
events of this
week.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Earlier this
week, Nunes drew
heat for informing the president
that some
Trump transition communications
were intercepted,
without first telling committee
Democrats.
Today, Nunes also announced that
former Trump
campaign chairman Paul Manafort
will appear
voluntarily before the
committee.
We will get back to all of this
a little later
in the program.
It's being reported that
President Trump will
continue to get financial
reports on his business
empire.
"Forbes" magazine quotes the
president's son
Eric as saying that he will
likely provide
quarterly updates.
Before taking office, the
president announced
that he would separate himself
from his companies
to avoid any conflicts of
interest.
A North Carolina man who fired
an assault-style
rifle inside a Washington
pizzeria pleaded
guilty today to weapons charges.
Edgar Welch told police that he
drove from
North Carolina last December to
investigate
a bogus online conspiracy
theory.
It claimed that the pizza shop,
named Comet
Ping Pong, was home to a child
sex ring involving
Hillary Clinton.
And Wall Street closed out its
worst week
since the election.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost nearly
60 points today to close at
20596.
The Nasdaq rose 11 points, while
The S&P 500
slipped about two.
For the week, all three indexes
were down
1 percent to 1.5 percent.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
what's next
in the health care debate; how
investigating
connections between the Trump
campaign and
Russia has split the House
Intelligence Committee;
Mark Shields and David Brooks
take on this
busy week of news; and much
more.
Mark Shields and David Brooks
take on this
busy week of news; and much
more.
Now the aftermath of today's
failure by Republicans
to move ahead with repealing and
replacing
the Affordable Care Act.
We talk with prominent figures
in both political
parties about what it means and
what is next.
I spoke a short while ago with
eight-term
Democratic Representative Tim
Ryan of Ohio.
Congressman Ryan, welcome.
What do you make of all this?
REP.
TIM RYAN (D), Ohio: Well, it's
been a very
interesting day, Judy, you know,
a lot going
on here on the Hill.
But, clearly, the Republicans
didn't have
the cohesiveness, the plan that
was going
to move this piece of
legislation forward.
And I think the plan really, in
so many ways,
was disastrous.
It was knocking 24 million
people off of their
health care.
That became something that a lot
of members
weren't willing to go home and
defend.
The repealing out of the stance
abuse coverage,
the mental health coverage, for
people who
have to go back to districts and
states that
are seeing one of the greatest
heroin and
drug epidemics in the history of
our country
happen right before their very
eyes, that
becomes very tough to vote for
when it hits
the ground back in places like
Ohio or other
states that are having these
huge substance
abuse epidemics happening.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, Speaker
Ryan is saying
-- he just said to the press a
few minutes
ago that the real disaster is
Obamacare, the
current Affordable Care Act,
that he says
it's something that's collapsing
of its on
weight, premiums are going up.
He said a third of the counties
in the country
have only one plan to choose
from.
REP.
TIM RYAN: Well, there are some
issues with
the Affordable Care Act.
We made great strides.
We covered 20 million people.
We are bending the cost curve in
the long
term.
Many people have the kind of
coverage that
I just talked about, mental
health, substance
abuse, preventative care,
prenatal care, all
the things that save you money
in the long
run.
That is in the Affordable Care
Act.
So, let's sit down and try to
fix the things
that we need to fix.
Part of the problem is, the
Republicans gutted
payments to the insurance
companies that would
have allowed them to participate
in some of
these riskier areas.
We needed to get coverage in
these areas,
but you needed to help the
insurance companies,
so they wouldn't lose money.
The Republican Party gutted that
part of the
budget, those insurance transfer
payments.
So, that's when the insurance
companies started
to leave.
And so they're saying it's not
working in
certain areas.
Well, because they cut the
funding to some
of those areas.
Let's sit down, Judy, and fix
the problems.
There are problems there.
I'm not ashamed to admit it.
We passed a great piece of
legislation that
had some flaws.
Let's sit down and fix them,
Democrats and
Republicans, and make this thing
work.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, is your
party prepared
to do that, and do you think the
Republicans
are prepared to do that?
REP.
TIM RYAN: Well, I don't speak on
behalf of
my entire party, but I know I'm
willing to
sit down and say, look, we have
made some
great strides.
There are some issues.
Let's sit down and fix them.
I have raised my hand to say,
I'm all in to
try to make sure that health
care is more
affordable for more people, that
it's more
accessible.
We should have universal
coverage and that
should be affordable for
everybody.
Here's the thing, Judy.
And I hope Republicans would be
willing to
sit down and do it.
They have been complaining about
Obamacare
for seven years.
They get into power, and their
first legislative
initiative, they can't even pass
something
that is an attempt to fix it,
but that was
because it was making it worse,
I think, was
why it didn't pass.
But here's the thing.
We're the United States of
America.
We're the wealthiest country in
the world.
And yet we're 37th in health
care delivery.
We spend 2.5 times what other
developed countries
spend on health care.
Clearly, we're not doing
everything right.
We need to move more of that
money into prevention.
We need to make sure that our
citizens are
healthier.
We got to have a big national
conversation
about our food system.
This is how we're going to solve
the problem
in the long run.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, when
President Trump says
this was due to -- that this is
really the
Democrats' fault, what's your
answer?
(LAUGHTER)
REP.
TIM RYAN: Well, we're not even
in the majority
in the House of Representatives.
I mean, how could it possibly be
our fault?
He has complete control of the
House of Representatives.
They're all Republicans.
And he couldn't even get the
Republicans to
pass it.
And it's typical Donald Trump.
He's going to find somebody to
blame, and
so he's going to blame the
Democrats.
I assume he's going to blame
President Obama
and maybe even Hillary Clinton
for this problem.
They need to take
responsibility.
They need to put a plan forward
that their
members can vote on and that
actually solve
problems.
The problem right now with the
Republican
Party, Judy, is they're living
by bumper sticker
slogans.
But now they're not in the
minority.
They're in the majority now.
The dog has actually caught the
car, and they
got to figure out how to govern
the country.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Representative
Tim Ryan, we
thank you for talking with us.
REP.
TIM RYAN: Thanks for having me.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Next, for an
opposing perspective,
I am joined by Lanhee Chen.
He is a fellow at the Hoover
Institution who
advised Mitt Romney and Marco
Rubio in their
presidential campaigns.
Lanhee Chen, welcome back to the
program.
What's your reaction to what
happened today?
LANHEE CHEN, Former Policy
Director, Mitt
Romney Campaign: Well, thank
you, Judy.
I think this is clearly a
self-inflected wound
for Republicans.
They had the opportunity to move
ahead on
really the only train out of
town, if you
will, to repeal the Affordable
Care Act and
replace it with some other
reforms.
And they didn't do so.
And I think it is real
disappointment for
those who have been seeking to
do this for
some time.
And we will have to see what
happens next,
but it appears as though health
care is off
the table for some period of
time.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I want to ask
you about
that, but what about the
president?
The president's comment is that
this is all
due to the Democrats, not
Republicans.
LANHEE CHEN: Well, Democrats
certainly weren't
helpful.
They didn't participate in the
process, obviously.
But, from the Republican
perspective, there
were a lot of people here that
appeared to
say they wanted a perfect piece
of legislation.
And it seems to me that they
allowed the perfect
to be the enemy of the good in
this case,
that there were a lot of things
about this
legislation that would have
moved the ball
forward, for example, on reform
of Medicaid,
which is a huge entitlement
program.
If they had actually voted for
the bill, they
would have been moving forward
that effort.
Instead, it seems to me, there
are some Republicans
that stood in the way.
And, as I said, I really see
this as a self-inflicted
wound more than anything else.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, what do you
think should
happen next?
I mean, the president is saying
-- we heard
this from what he told to --
told Robert Costa
with The Washington Post.
He said, I'm moving on to tax
reform.
LANHEE CHEN: It's going to be a
challenge.
As Speaker Ryan said today, not
being able
to get this done, I think, does
make tax reform
harder.
I think it is probably wise to
move on to
a different subject for some
period of time.
It is clear that there are
divisions within
the Republican Party, Judy,
about how to handle
health care and health care
reform going forward.
I do think this notion that
Obamacare is going
to collapse in one, large giant
flame is probably
simply inaccurate.
I think it's the case that, in
many markets,
you are going to see significant
issues, but
the Medicaid expansion will
continue.
And Obamacare will, by and
large, continue
as well.
So, I think we need to take a
step back, take
stock of what's going to happen,
and hopefully
return to this issue at some
point in the
future.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, it's
interesting you
should say that, because I'm
looking at what
the president said when he
talked to the press
a short time ago.
He said what you just said.
He predicted that it will
collapse.
And he said, at that point,
Democrats are
going to come crawling back, in
so many words,
looking for a way to work with
Republicans.
But you're saying that your view
of this whole
thing is different.
LANHEE CHEN: Yes.
I mean, I think, more than
anything, Judy,
I would call this kind of a
slow-motion train
wreck more than a significant
sort of single
implosion or single situation
where the bill
completely -- where Obamacare
completely goes
down in flames.
I think it's the case there are
some markets
where there's significant
difficulty.
There will be additional markets
where there
will be even more difficulty as
we get toward
the end of 2017 into 2018.
But something like the Medicaid
expansion,
that will continue, and that
will continue
to place pressure on the federal
budget, as
well as on state budgets.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, if you're
saying it's not
a good idea for Republicans to
come back to
this issue right now, what
happens to it?
Where do you see this going?
LANHEE CHEN: Well, I do think,
as I said,
in certain markets, you are
going to see,
particularly on the individual
market side
and Obamacare exchanges, you are
going to
see continuing declines if
insurer participation.
I do think premiums continue to
go up in some
markets.
And I think there will need to
be efforts
made to look at how to repair
the individual
market and to shore up that part
of this.
But if we want to go toward
larger system
change, toward entitlement
reform, et cetera,
that's going to have to be a
completely different
discussion.
And it is going to be something
that Republicans
have to get on the same page on
first before
that ball gets moved forward.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And how long does
it take until
you see Republicans getting
there?
LANHEE CHEN: Well, I thought --
I had hoped
they would have been able to get
there hopefully
over the last few weeks, but
that obviously
didn't happen.
I think it's something where
they're going
to have to revisit this issue
after dealing
more seriously with whether it's
tax reform
or infrastructure spending or
some other issue
to be able to demonstrate that
they can govern
and then hopefully come back to
this issue
as time goes on.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Lanhee Chen, we
thank you very
much.
LANHEE CHEN: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The drama on
Capitol Hill today
wasn't just on the health care
front.
As we reported earlier, the
House Intelligence
Committee descended into further
division
over its Russia investigation.
Hari Sreenivasan has that.
HARI SREENIVASAN: There were new
and more
serious fractures today on the
Intelligence
Committee.
It's investigating Russian
meddling in last
year's election, and alleged
ties between
the Trump campaign and Moscow.
Now the very direction of the
probe itself
seems in question.
Here for some more on this is
one of the committee's
Democratic members,
Representative Eric Swalwell
of California.
Congressman, you have said
before that you
feel that Chairman Devin Nunes
has a conflict
of interests.
Do you think he's taking orders
from the White
House?
REP.
ERIC SWALWELL (D), California: I
think he
betrayed the duty to conduct an
independent,
collaborative investigation.
We were attacked by Russia this
past election,
and our constituents are
counting on us to
get to the bottom of what
happened.
He's going off on his own, and
receiving classified
information, not sharing it with
members of
the committee, taking it to the
White House,
where the president's campaign
is currently
under criminal and
counterintelligence
investigations.
I think what we need to do is,
he needs to
find an on-ramp, because this
investigation
must continue to go forward.
And he must work with Democrats.
Otherwise, our constituents are
going to ask,
how can you conduct a credible
investigation
into the largest attack that our
elections
have ever seen?
HARI SREENIVASAN: The
information at the center
of this particular controversy,
he said that
he has information of apparent
unmasking of
identified of U.S. persons tied
to the Trump
campaign collected under legal
surveillance.
Have you now seen in the last
couple of days
seen any of this information?
REP.
ERIC SWALWELL: He should unmask
this evidence
for his colleagues on the
Intelligence Committee.
And that is what is so
disturbing.
He told us yesterday, after he
apologized
for how this happened, that we
would see this
evidence today.
We haven't seen it.
No one knows who or what he is
talking about.
And, again, it has seriously
compromised the
independence of an investigation
that people
are counting on us to conduct.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now, just in
the past 24
hours or so, the Democratic head
of the Congress,
Adam Schiff, has said that there
is also -- quote
-- "more than circumstantial
evidence of collusion"
between Trump campaign and
Russia.
Have you seen any of that?
REP.
ERIC SWALWELL: No, so, that's
reserved for
members of the Gang of Eight,
who include
the chairman of the committee
and the ranking
member.
But I do credit our ranking
member, who is
pushing for all members of the
committee to
have access to this information.
But I would also tell you, Hari,
that there
is enough information out there
in the unclassified
world that shows serious ties,
personal, political
and financial, that converge
with Russia as
they were conducting this
interference campaign.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In your
opinion, what can
salvage this investigation?
REP.
ERIC SWALWELL: Well, it's really
-- the speaker
is the one who is in charge of
who chairs
the Intelligence Committee.
And it looks like he was party
to this stunt.
He authorized Devin Nunes to
receive the information
and take it to the White House.
And so we are going to continue
to go forward,
as Democrats, and listen to
witnesses and
review evidence.
But we need an independent
commission now
more than ever.
That's not only the most
comprehensive way
to get to the bottom of what
happened.
Now it's an insurance policy
against this
compromised investigation.
HARI SREENIVASAN: We heard the
chairman's
comments this morning.
Do you know why he made next
week's session
closed with FBI Director Comey
and NSA Director
Mike Rogers?
REP.
ERIC SWALWELL: To further
obstruct us from
getting to the bottom of the
truth.
And that's what is so
frustrating here, is,
we had an open hearing.
The American people for the
first time since
this attack heard evidence about
Russia's
conduct and the Trump team ties,
had that
evidence validated by the FBI
director, who
confirmed an investigation is
under way.
And they were looking forward to
a hearing
this coming Tuesday from other
witnesses who
had information.
And to cancel it, I think, only
obstructs
our pursuit for the truth.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But isn't the
bulk of the
committee's work done behind
closed doors?
REP.
ERIC SWALWELL: Only if we have
to pass classified
information to a witness or we
have to receive
classified information from a
witness.
And, in this case, we had
already received
opening statement testimony in
an unclassified
form from the witnesses.
And so now this is on hold.
And people at home are
wondering, what are
you going to do to make sure
we're never in
this mess again?
HARI SREENIVASAN: There were
reports this
afternoon that advisers close to
President
Trump, Roger Stone and Paul
Manafort and Carter
Page, they are interested in
having a public
hearing.
They feel essentially that
they're under the
microscope here and they want an
opportunity
to address the committee.
Is that an option?
REP.
ERIC SWALWELL: Yes.
We are very interested in having
them testify
only in public.
And I think the only way we
really earn and
reclaim the independence of this
committee
is to bring those witnesses
forward in public
and ask them about serious
questions around
what they were doing, why they
were going
to Russia as this interference
campaign was
going on, and, for Mr. Manafort,
why such
extensive financial ties to
Russia and pro-Russia
individuals.
HARI SREENIVASAN: We had two
almost separate
press conferences today by the
heads of this
committee.
What puts this back on track
towards any sort
of bipartisan kind of effort?
REP.
ERIC SWALWELL: Well, first, the
chairman needs
to fulfill the promise he made
to the committee
members yesterday, including
members on his
own side, that he will show us
evidence that
he received and took over to the
White House.
That's the first step.
And, unless that occurs, I don't
see how we
get back to having the real
credibility that
the American people are counting
on us to
have.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Representative
Eric Swalwell, thank you.
REP.
ERIC SWALWELL: Yes.
My pleasure, Hari.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
movie director
Danny Boyle discusses his sequel
20 years
later to the hit '90s film
"Trainspotting";
and one man's take on whether
corporate sponsorships
compromise the causes they claim
to benefit.
But first to the analysis of
Shields and Brooks.
That is syndicated columnist
Mark Shields,
and New York Times columnist
David Brooks.
Gentlemen, I'm sorry there is no
news to talk
about today, but let's see what
we can find.
Mark, seriously, the move today
in the Congress
and by the president to pull
this health care
bill, what is there to say?
The Republicans wanted -- they
said for months
that this is what was going to
happen.
MARK SHIELDS: The first thing,
Judy, is, I
think, a general statement.
The Republican Party is an
opposition party.
It's a protest party.
We have a protest president.
We have a protest party.
It's not a governing party.
It showed itself unable to
accept the responsibility
and the accountability of
governing.
This bill wasn't a bad bill.
This bill was just an
abomination.
There was no public case that
could be made
for the bill.
There was no public argument
that could be
made for the bill, because
nobody knew what
was in it.
There was no public campaign for
the bill,
because no organizations --
every organization
that cares -- that was involved
in medical
care, whether it was the
American Medical
Association, the American
Psychiatric Association,
the American Academy of
Pediatrics, they were
all against the bill.
It was a terrible bill.
There was nothing organized.
The only organizing principle
is, it was against
Barack Obama.
And Paul Ryan, a very earnest
policy wonk,
showed himself to be an inept
political leader.
He couldn't even lean on the
safest seats
in his own party's caucus.
Those are ones you say, these
are people who
are really not threatened for
reelection.
I need you.
You have to vote.
He couldn't even do that.
And Donald Trump showed he has
no understanding
of the legislative process.
He dealt in adjectives.
It was wonderful, fantastic,
glorious.
He had no idea what was in it.
The art of the deal just
collapsed, and this
is a man who gave away the store
to the Freedom
Caucus, and got nothing in
return, didn't
even get their votes.
I mean, on no count was this
anything but
a disaster politically, and
public policy,
and just for the country.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you
explain it, David?
DAVID BROOKS: Well, all those
things contributed,
Trump's bad negotiation, lack of
experience,
the factionalism.
And people talk about divisions
within the
party, blah, blah, blah, but the
core problem
was philosophical and
intellectual.
The problem was with the
substance of the
bill.
We live in a country that has
widening inequality,
where there's a lot of people
very -- being
very insecure.
And the Republicans could have
taken some
of their approaches, like the
tax credits,
like the health savings accounts
and a lot
of things, and to deal with the
country as
it is, as, say, take those
mechanisms, market
mechanisms, to reduce costs, but
to give people
basic security and shore up the
coverage that
they have now.
But, instead of doing that, they
gave a bill
that was, like, out of "1984,"
which devastated
the poor, $880 billion cut out
of Medicaid,
while enriching the rich,
increasing the after-tax
incomes of people making more
than a million
dollars by 14 percent.
So, this was like every
stereotype of the
Republican Party.
And so it just didn't fit the
country.
And the core problem for the
Republicans is
they can't figure out what they
want to govern.
Even if they were the best and
most efficient
legislators in the history of
the world, if
you don't know what you want to
do, and you
don't know how you're going to
address this
country's problems, you're going
to wind up
with bills which are
superficial, intellectually
incoherent and unpopular.
And the last Quinnipiac poll had
this at 17
percent.
And so it was a failure of
understanding,
what we do we want to do?
That's what killed this bill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And so what does
that mean,
Mark, for what the Republicans
say they want
to do next?
The president and Speaker Ryan
suggested tax
reform.
Major tax reform is the next on
the agenda.
MARK SHIELDS: The deal that
Republicans in
Congress essentially made with
Donald Trump,
who they didn't know and in most
cases didn't
particularly trust, was, he will
be the instrument
of our achieving our agenda.
He will be -- whether it's
deregulation, whether
it's tax reform, or whatever.
I think that relationship was
ruptured.
Mutual trust, to the degree that
it existed,
was depleted today.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Between the
president and...
MARK SHIELDS: Between the
president and his
party in Congress, the party
itself.
Judy, I don't think it's going
to -- it's
not going to be easy.
I don't think anything is going
to be easy
from this point forward.
If you are a Republican, all of
a sudden,
the midterm elections of 2018
got a lot closer.
Why do I say that?
Because when a president's job
approval rating
is 50 percent or above, the
president's party
loses an average of 14 House
seats in the
midterm election.
When a president's job rating is
below 50
percent, his party loses an
average of 37
House seats.
Donald Trump today is in -- in
the best polls,
in the high 30s.
It's hard to see how his numbers
are going
to go far north from here.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It is still
early.
MARK SHIELDS: It is still early.
It's 64 days and all the rest of
it.
But this is not a
confidence-builder.
This is not a trust-builder.
And Republicans, all of a
sudden, are starting
to get nervous about 2018.
They thought 2018, if you will
recall, when
they thought Hillary Clinton was
going to
win, was going to be the arrival
of the golden
age.
And right now, they're going to
be on defense.
There is no Hillary Clinton to
run against.
There is no Barack Obama to run
against.
It's a referendum on Donald
Trump and his
party.
And, right now, that is not
working in their
direction.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What can
Republicans get done
now?
DAVID BROOKS: Well, if they
stick with -- I
think Paul Ryan is a wonderful
guy, a great
politician, a good thinker.
MARK SHIELDS: Not a great
politician.
DAVID BROOKS: OK, fair, fair.
MARK SHIELDS: Yes.
No.
DAVID BROOKS: OK.
But people like him.
People on the Hill like him.
The ones who were going to vote
for the bill,
a lot of it was just to support
Paul Ryan.
But, intellectually, he used to
work at a
place called Empower America,
where Jack Kemp
and Bill Bennett worked.
And it had -- it was the
orthodoxy of the
1980s Republicanism.
And if Republicans stick with
that, well,
then they will go down to defeat
after defeat.
And to me, the big question is,
how will Donald
Trump react to this?
There was a lot of enmity,
frankly, between
him and Ryan in the last few
days, bad communication,
cutting deals behind each
other's backs, mostly
Trump to Ryan.
And so will he say, OK, I'm not
going to do
this again?
I'm going to run -- I'm going to
govern as
a true populist.
And maybe break up some of the
orthodoxies
that separate Democrats from
Republicans.
Maybe I won't try to pass bills
without -- through
the reconciliation process,
which is a technical
thing, but messes up every bill
you try to
pass, because it's so arcane,
restrictions
on what you can put in a bill.
And maybe I will try to be a 65
percent -- get
some Democrats, get some
Republicans, and
violate the Republican
orthodoxy.
To me, that's the smart lesson
out of this.
Run or govern -- try to govern
the way you
actually ran, which is not
orthodox Republican,
anybody but.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, if he does
that, Mark,
where does that leave
Republicans, his own
-- his party?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, I'm not sure
where it
does.
I don't think he's
constitutionally capable
of doing that.
The time to do that, David, was
after the
election.
I mean, the country was yearning
to be united.
It was divided.
It was polarized.
That was the time to do it.
You don't do nine rallies.
You don't do red state rallies.
On the eve of the vote, you
don't go to Louisville
and have cries of "Lock her up"
in the room.
You don't do that.
That is playing to the narrowest
base.
I agree.
At the outset, on health care,
he should have
brought in the Democrats and the
Republicans
and say, look, they have to come
in.
But he beat up on Obamacare,
said it was terrible,
it was horrendous, it was awful,
it had to
go.
Where is the purchase there for
the Democrats
to say, we want to be part of
it?
Now he's walking away from
health care in
the country.
He is responsible.
They are the governing party.
Do Republicans understand that?
If health care is in trouble in
this country,
it's the Republicans.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
This is a point to be underlined
that Lanhee
Chen made the good point that
Obamacare is
not going to explode.
No one -- on expert thinks that.
It may deteriorate over time,
but it's not
going to explode.
They're not going to walk back
into this.
Second, Republicans now own the
health care
system in this country.
And so it's not like people are
going to blame
Barack Obama.
He's never going to be on the
ballot again.
MARK SHIELDS: That's right.
DAVID BROOKS: When things go
bad, they're
going to blame the Republicans.
So, that's why I think -- I
agree.
I don't think he's going to
pivot in some
major way.
But this is not brain science.
Who elected him?
Working-class voters, people
making just above
the Medicaid minimum.
This bill hammered them.
Who elected him?
People 50 to 64.
This bill hammered those people.
Why not take people who voted
for you and
reward them?
That's not -- that's like the
normal thing
to do.
And he's not doing it.
And if he repeats the error in
tax reform,
same outcome.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, this
wasn't the
only bad news for President
Trump this week,
Mark.
You had the FBI director come
out and confirm
publicly in a hearing before the
Congress
that they are investigating, the
FBI is investigating
ties between the Trump campaign
and Russian
government officials, says they
don't have
evidence yet of coordination,
collusion, but
an investigation is under way.
MARK SHIELDS: Judy, the week
began with the
president being basically
regarded and described
by the intelligence chiefs of
the country
as dishonest, OK, I mean, that
the charge
was with baseless, a charge of
felony he made
against his predecessor, to the
point where
The Wall Street Journal, the
organ of American
conservatism, said he is on the
verge of becoming
-- his relationship with honesty
is so loose,
he's become a fake president,
not a fake news
president.
So, this is devastating.
To say that an FBI investigation
has been
going on since July, since July,
it's hard
to say that it's going to come
to nothing.
And so this is serious stuff,
and it's hurtful.
It puts -- when you doubt the
president's
competence and his honesty in
the same week,
I mean, these are blows.
Regardless of how loyal and
dedicated and
enthusiastic is his base, this
is an erosion
of public support and public
trust.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How does it
affect what he's
able to do?
DAVID BROOKS: Well, I was trying
to think
of a president who had a worse
week.
I mean, as Mark said, like, to
have your major
legislative initiative die, and
your first
major one, and then get a
scandal into your
integrity in one week, that's a
rarity in
American history, let alone this
early in
a term.
I'm not sure we're ever going to
find some
smoking gun that's going to link
the Trump
campaign to Vladimir Putin.
I mean, there is, to me -- the
big mystery
is the almost magnetic pull
between the Trump
crowd and Russia.
Like, what is the basis of that?
Is it because he had so many
investors?
And, as I have said before --
and we seem
to be getting a little closer to
this answer
-- where did Paul Manafort come
from?
How did he become chairman of
the Trump campaign
in the middle of all this, a guy
who had ties
to mobsters from Russia?
These are not normal things.
What was the chain of events
that led to that?
But whether we have will
actually conversations
or proof or actual evidence, we
-- I -- we
have oversold this story at
times.
I'm not saying it's not
significant, but we
have leapt to the -- connecting
all the dots,
when the dots really aren't
there right now.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, one
other thing
I want to ask you about, in any
other week,
this would have been the first
thing we talked
about.
But, Mark, that is the nominee
to the Supreme
Court by the president, Neil
Gorsuch, had
several days of hearings, didn't
answer all
the questions the Democrats
wanted him to.
Where does he stand?
What do his prospects look like?
MARK SHIELDS: Didn't even answer
the questions
that Sam Alito and John Roberts
did when they
were up there.
I will say one thing that the
Trump campaign
did very well.
They did vetting.
They vetted the judges.
They knew whom they had.
And if they had done as well in
the Cabinet,
it would be different.
He was the ideal nominee.
And I think in spite of his
becoming non-forthcoming
and said there's no Democrat
judges, Republican
judges, I think he had a very
good week.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You think he's
safe for confirmation?
MARK SHIELDS: I think he --
unless there is
something out there.
But Chuck Schumer is not a guy
who goes on
a quixotic journey all by
himself.
He said he is going to lead a
filibuster.
But I don't see the votes being
there.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thirty seconds.
DAVID BROOKS: I think the
Democrats are making
a big mistake.
The guy is clearly qualified.
He is clearly within the realm
of what any
Republican would nominate.
And we're lucky to have a guy of
that quality.
I thought he behaved
outstandingly.
Democrats should pick their
fights.
They will have plenty of fights
in the Trump
era.
But to blow up the filibuster
rules over this
is undignified and an insult to
the Senate.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Gentlemen, thank
you both,
David Brooks, Mark Shields.
MARK SHIELDS: Thank you, Judy.
DAVID BROOKS: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Next: An
Oscar-winning director
returns with a sequel to a film
that became
a cult classic 20 years ago.
Jeffrey Brown reports.
ACTOR: Hello, Mark.
ACTOR: Simon.
ACTOR: So, what have you been
for 20 years?
JEFFREY BROWN: It's a fraught
question, all
right.
The new film, "T2:
Trainspotting," is about
a group of men, once the best of
friends growing
up in the projects of Edinburgh,
Scotland,
coming together after 20 years,
with a wee
bit of baggage.
Director Danny Boyle says that
nostalgia,
even to the point of denial, is
a central
theme in the film.
DANNY BOYLE, Director, "T2:
Trainspotting":
One of their problems is that
they imagine,
as men often do, that they can
still live
like they were 20 years old.
JEFFREY BROWN: You're saying
that as you smile,
right, that you feel it
yourself.
DANNY BOYLE: Very much so.
I mean, it's like a -- something
I would absolutely
hold up my hand and admit to.
And it was one of the joys of
doing the film
was the learning process of
seeing how poorly
men age and how wise women are,
whereas we
-- it's not even like we think
we're living
in the past.
We just are, and we're not
admitting it to
ourselves for so long.
And that's one of those things
that happens
in the film.
So, you have your cake, you have
your fun,
but you also -- you learn from
it as well,
I think.
JEFFREY BROWN: The new film is a
sequel to
the 1996 original
"Trainspotting," about four
heroin-using, small-crime
committing, wild-living
young men.
Based on a 1993 novel by Irvine
Welsh, it
was a low-budget affair, Boyle's
second feature
film, with then little-known
actors, but it
became a smash hit, one of the
most successful
films ever made in Britain, with
a large,
almost cultish following in the
U.S. and worldwide.
DANNY BOYLE: We believed in it
very fervently,
very passionately, in the book
and how we
wanted to make it as a film.
This is Irvine Welsh's
extraordinary voice
that he creates for these
people, and that
we inherit in the movies.
He gives a voice to people who
are marginalized,
and they are from an
extraordinary city, Edinburgh,
but they're from the fringes.
JEFFREY BROWN: The first one was
about this
youthful experience of, you know
can almost
do anything.
And they do, like heroin and all
kinds of
antics.
But you feel immortal.
But now this is inevitably a
kind of meditation
about aging and mortality.
DANNY BOYLE: The first film is
really boyhood,
or, you know, when you emerge
from childhood
into those late teens, early 20s
and you feel
reckless and careless, and you
can take all
the risks, terrible risks you
take with yourself
and other people.
And most of us get away with it.
And they have -- most of them
have got away
with it.
But they move from boyhood to
manhood, really.
You get a little sense of the
beginning, a
glimmer of understanding of
where they are
in the world and what they
should be and what
they need to atone for.
JEFFREY BROWN: For the sequel,
again based
on work by Irvine Welsh, the
four lead actors,
including Ewan McGregor and
Jonny Lee Miller,
have returned.
All had gone on to successful
careers, as
has Boyle, who won an Oscar for
best director
for "Slumdog Millionaire," and
later made
the biopic "Steve Jobs."
When you're making a remake like
this, there's
an opportunity, because you have
a built-in
audience, in some sense, but
isn't there also
kind of, I don't know, albatross
or something
of expectations?
DANNY BOYLE: Oh, totally.
And you have to learn very
quickly to take
off the albatross.
Otherwise, it just gets heavier
and heavier,
worrying about what people will
think of us
going back.
JEFFREY BROWN: You just say,
don't blow it,
right?
I have this memory of a film I
love.
DANNY BOYLE: Yes.
The affection for the first film
was palpable.
And, indeed, that was one of the
reasons we
went back to it.
There was still an appetite for
these characters.
But, yes, you're concerned about
not besmirching
the original and the memory of
the original.
But we felt -- and we tried 10
years ago,
and we abandoned that attempt,
because it
would have disappointed people,
we knew, because
it was just a rehash of the
original.
It was kind of like a caper.
JEFFREY BROWN: "T2" is no
rehash, but it does
pay homage.
Scenes are recreated from the
original, again
addressing addiction at times,
but equally
about the bonds of friendship.
ACTOR: I need to detox the
system.
ACTOR: Detox the system.
What does that even mean?
It doesn't mean anything.
It's not getting out of your
body that's the
problem.
It's getting out of your mind.
You are an addict.
JEFFREY BROWN: Obvious question
is, why go
back?
DANNY BOYLE: Yes.
Well, because I think it is kind
of -- it
is a natural inclination in
human beings.
The past is alive in us, and you
often ignore
it for long periods of time.
JEFFREY BROWN: But there is it.
DANNY BOYLE: Yes, but there it
is.
And that's why we have those
catchup moments
where you go, it's not, is it,
20 years like
that?
JEFFREY BROWN: And to the extent
that we're
talking about a film about aging
men, you're
older, too.
DANNY BOYLE: I am.
JEFFREY BROWN: Did you feel any
trepidation
about going back to your early
period?
DANNY BOYLE: Oh, yes, because
you think -- you're
measuring yourself against the
past, really.
JEFFREY BROWN: Oh, you feel
that?
DANNY BOYLE: Oh, yes, very much
so, yes.
I also -- because I have a
philosophy, a belief,
which I can see in many, many
other directors
that your early work is your
best work, because
you don't know what you're
doing.
And I certainly felt that way
when we were
making the first
"Trainspotting."
We were in the dark, me and the
actors, but
none of us had much experience.
And so you're taking huge risks,
ridiculous
risks, a bit like the bravado of
the characters
in a way.
Obviously, when you come to a
later one and
you look back, then you begin to
simulate
some of that innocence and some
of that naivete
work and that freshness really.
And I hope some of that is in
the new movie
as well.
JEFFREY BROWN: It's an
interesting philosophy
of life and directing.
It's all downhill from here.
Right?
(LAUGHTER)
DANNY BOYLE: Absolutely, yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: "T2:
Trainspotting" opens around
the country today.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Jeffrey Brown.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Nato Thompson is
a curator
of public art, and the author of
the recent
book "Culture as Weapon."
Tonight, he offers his Humble
Opinion on the
confusion created by charitable
advertising.
Have a listen.
NATO THOMPSON, Author, "Culture
as Weapon":
Like many of us, I was brought
being told
I should make the world a better
place.
As a curator of contemporary art
in our public
spaces, I often work with
artists who share
this basic common value.
We want to rectify social
injustices and to
help our fellow humans.
Call it do-gooder art, for lack
of a better
term.
I have seen a growing interest
in corporations
wanting to support public art.
And while I too want to go after
the money,
sometimes, I have to stop and
ask, is corporately
funded art just an
advertisement?
Am I being paranoid?
Am I a pawn in someone else's
game?
I don't think it is just me.
I suspect we must all admit a
bit of confusion
over what is an advertisement
and what is
actual social good.
For example, every October, a
particular color
arrives that epitomizes this
phenomena: pink.
It is the color of breast cancer
awareness.
And, believe me, I can't imagine
a more important
disease to fight.
So, please, don't take my
criticism of pink
to be a critique of the actual
work fighting
breast cancer.
But I have also seen, as I am
sure you have,
a lot of sponsors jump on the
pink bandwagon.
Sports teams have literally
turned pink, from
cleat to helmet.
Soup cans turn pink.
Bowling balls turn pink.
Even military fighter jets have
turned pink.
Now, I'm all for awareness, but,
certainly,
some businesses see the pink
color as an opportunity
to appeal to the female consumer
market.
Now, I'm just guessing here.
This approach actually has a
name.
It is called cause-related
marketing.
One could easily call it a
win-win, and, sometimes,
my artists and I are the lucky
recipients.
Social justice causes get, well,
money, and
sponsors get the benefit of
looking moral.
For those of a more cynical
persuasion, they
might see such efforts as a bit
of a shell
game, where a company distracts
with the image
of doing good to take the eyes
off practices
that are not.
You notice this even at the
Academy Awards
of advertising, the Super Bowl.
A lot of those ads seem to have
this feeling
as though they are actually out
to do good
in the world.
Maybe they are.
Maybe they are not.
The world is a complex place.
Wanting to make the world a
better and actually
doing it are not the same thing.
Let's just be aware of how
susceptible we
are as consumers to images.
I suggest we should focus on all
of the practices
of companies vying for our
attention, in order
to make a better judgment.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Curator Nato
Thompson, in his
Humble Opinion.
And on the "NewsHour" online
right now: What's
in the new 2017 NASA
Congressional Authorization
Act?
The bill makes some major
changes to the space
agency's priorities.
We take a close look and explain
why it matters.
All that and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
Stay tuned for more on this big
week on Capitol
Hill and the defeat of the
Republican health
care bill with "Washington
Week," hosted tonight
by Robert Costa of The
Washington Post, who,
as you heard, joined us earlier
tonight about
that unexpected phone call he
got from President
Trump today.
And on "PBS NewsHour" Saturday:
an inside
look at South Sudan's growing
humanitarian
crisis, as the world's newest
country confronts
famine and fears of genocide.
NARRATOR: When I caught up with
a spokesman
for the government troops known
as the Sudan
People's Liberation Army, or
SPLA, he denied
that abuses are happening in a
systematic
way.
MAN: How come that a national
army like this
will attack civilians?
We are not angels.
Within us, there are some
criminals, but these
criminals does not represent our
image as
the SPLA.
But there are very few elements,
very few
elements that might have
committed some crimes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That's tomorrow
night on "PBS
NewsHour Weekend."
For our part, we will be back
right here on
Monday with a look at life on
the U.S.-Mexico
border.
That's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Have a great weekend.
Thank you, and we will see you
soon.